sessionsearch[27]: add session recording search documentation (#66412)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/identity-security/session-search.mdx

---
title: Session Recording Search
sidebar_label: Session Recording Search
description: Configure and use Teleport Identity Security Session Recording Search to find summarized session recordings.
tags:
  - session-recording
  - how-to
  - conceptual
  - identity-security
  - ai
enterprise: Identity Security
---

Session Recording Search lets you find relevant session recordings by searching their
summaries and session metadata. You can search with a natural
language description, exact keywords, or filters such as user, role, resource,
label, access request, session kind, time range, and severity.

Session Recording Search searches session summaries, not raw recording data. A
recording appears in search results only after Teleport has generated a
successful [session recording summary](./session-summaries.mdx) for that
session.

## How it works

When a session summary is generated, Teleport indexes the summary and related

> session metadata in Access Graph. Teleport also generates vector embeddings for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
session metadata in Identity Security. Teleport also generates vector embeddings for
```

summary chunks using the configured `retrieval_model` resource. When a user

> runs a search, Teleport Auth Service embeds the search query, asks Access Graph

Reviewer: ```suggestion
runs a search, Teleport Auth Service embeds the search query, queries Identity Security
```

custom administration role, grant `read`, `list`, `create`, `update`, and
`delete` on `retrieval_model`.

For example, create a `session-search-admin.yaml` file with the following
content:

```yaml
kind: role
metadata:
  name: session-search-admin
spec:
  allow:
    rules:
    - resources: [retrieval_model]
      verbs: [read, list, create, update, delete]
version: v7
```

Session Recording Search needs both an embeddings provider and an inference
model. The embeddings provider converts session summaries and search queries
into vectors for semantic matching. The `inference_model_name` field points to
an existing `inference_model` resource that Teleport uses to convert natural
language search queries into API requests and generate prose from session
summaries. In most deployments, this can be the same inference model you
already configured for Session Recording Summaries.

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="OpenAI">

You can reuse an existing `inference_secret` that contains your OpenAI or
OpenAI-compatible API key. The following example uses the `openai-key` secret
from the Session Recording Summaries setup and the `shell-summary-model`

> inference model:

Reviewer 2: This colon introduces another paragraphs. I would make it a period and make the following paragraph end in a colon instead.

with a region available in your AWS account. Session Recording Search supports
only the `amazon.titan-embed-text-v2:0` Bedrock embedding model.

```yaml
kind: retrieval_model
version: v1
metadata:
  name: retrieval-model
spec:
  bedrock:
    region: us-east-1
    bedrock_model_id: amazon.titan-embed-text-v2:0
  inference_model_name: shell-summary-model
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Save the configuration as `retrieval-model.yaml`, then apply it:

```code
$ tctl create -f retrieval-model.yaml
```

For infrastructure-as-code workflows, see the
[`teleport_retrieval_model` Terraform resource](../reference/infrastructure-as-code/terraform-provider/resources/retrieval_model.mdx)
or the
[`TeleportRetrievalModelV1` Kubernetes operator resource](../reference/infrastructure-as-code/operator-resources/resources-teleport-dev-retrievalmodelsv1.mdx).

## Step 2/3. Generate searchable summaries

Conduct a new SSH, Kubernetes, or database session that matches one of your
session summary inference policies. After the session ends, wait for Teleport
to generate its summary. New successful summaries are indexed for Session
Recording Search.

## Step 3/3. Search recordings

> Use [`tctl recordings search`](../reference/cli/tctl.mdx#tctl-recordings-search)

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't include this link here, since it takes the user away from this page without providing context as to why. I would recommend putting it in a "Next steps" section instead.
